>> Jen Kramer: So
this video is just for PC people.
There's another version of this video for
just Mac people.
At this point,
we have downloaded Sublime Text, and
we've configured it with
a bunch of plugins.
We know about files and folders.
We are finally ready to actually start
working with a few files and folders and
starting to see a little
bit of code in action.
So that's what I'd like
to do in this video.
First thing I'd like to do is talk
about the standard folder structure for
a given web project.
So typically, when you start a web
project, you're going to make a folder.
Inside of that folder is gonna
be your entire web project.
And likely, there's a bunch of files and
folders inside of there.
There could be all kinds
of different structures.
As I said before, folders,
the whole purpose of them is to organize
things to make them easy to find.
However, we do develop
conventions in certain fields.
And this is a convention that
you'll find in web development.
So very typically, the way that
our folders are configured for
a basic web project, like the ones
we'll be building, is just like this.
We start with one main folder for
the website.
Inside of that, we're going to
put a folder called CSS, and
we're gonna put CSS files in that.
We'll make another folder called img,
or images, for image files.
And we'll make another folder called js,
or JavaScript, for JavaScript files.
Any HTML files that we generate are just
gonna go inside the main folder.
So I'd like to show this for
you in action.
We’re gonna go back to our desktop,
and we’re gonna go ahead and
start the folder structure for
a typical web project.
So what I am going to do here on
my desktop is simply right-click,
and I’m going to choose New > Folder.
And so that'll give me a new folder.
I can call it whatever I want.
And I'm just gonna to call
this one demonstration.
>> Jen Kramer: And in fact,
I'm gonna call this demo-finish.
I'm gonna to call this folder demo-finish
because we actually have a starting
state for this demo as well.
So that’s my folder there on my
desktop for my website, demo-finish.
I’m now going to double-click
on demo-finish to open this up,
it'll show me what’s inside the folder,
which is nothing.
That's as expected,
because I just created it.
Inside of this folder, we’ll go ahead and
add some additional folders.
So, once again, we can right-click in
here and say, once again, New > Folder.
And I'm going to make
my folder called css.
Make sure it's all lower case.
The upper case and
lower case letters do matter in
terms of file naming conventions.
And it's just easier to remember if
everything is done in lower case.
So lower case css.
Then we'll ahead and right-click again,
we'll make another folder,
and we're gonna call this one,
>> Jen Kramer: img, for images.
And then finally, one more time,
we'll right-click again, new folder.
And this one is gonna be called JS,
for JavaScript, okay?
So we now have the folder structure for
a new web project.
Let's see what happens if we
actually put some files into these.
So to get started with that,
in your Start menu here, look for
a web browser that you
might have installed.
Hopefully, you've installed by
this point Chrome or Firefox.
I can walk you through how to do that, but
if you just do a Google search for Chrome,
Firefox, you will find links where you
can download and install the application,
just the same way we did with Sublime
Text, a very simple sort of procedure.
So we're gonna go ahead and
click on Chrome here because
I have Chrome installed.
So we're gonna enter URL here,
it's where all the files and
folders are gonna be located for
materials for this course.
And that address is,
bit.ly/internetfundamentals, all one word.
Go ahead and go there.
And that will go ahead and download for
you right here at the bottom
of your browser window.
Now just going ahead and
in the little arrow next to the file name,
go ahead and choose Open.
And you'll see that there is a file in
here called Web Tools and Infrastructure.
Just go ahead and
drag that to your Desktop,
it'll take just a second to go ahead and
download.
>> Jen Kramer: Then inside of
the folder called Web Tools and
Infrastructure, you're going to look for
the starting website folder.
Go ahead and drag that to the desktop.
Now, if we go ahead and
open up the starting website folder,
you'll see that I have in
here a whole bunch of files.
There are some javascript files,
some jpeg files, some pngs,
those are images, HTML and so forth.
And what we're going to do with these
is we're gonna put these in the right
places inside of the folders
that we just created.
So let's go over the types of files that
we would be typically put in the img,
the css, and the js folders.
So I've described those here.
Anything that ends in .htm or .html,
that's going to go into the main folder.
In this case,
our folder called demo-finish.
Any CSS files end in .css,
those go in the CSS folder.
Any JavaScript files end in .js.
And they go into the JavaScript folder.
Any of the images are going
to the img folder.
Now it's important to note that there
are certain image types that are supported
by the web.
And in this case, they have to be JPG,
which is a great format for
photography, GIFs and PNG files.
And GIFs and PNG files are typically
more used for illustrations.
File types like TIFs, BIT MAPs,
EPS, Adobe Illustrator or
Photoshop native files, anything like
that is not supported by a web browser,
so you can't use those on a website.
The only choices that you have for
your images are GIF, JPEG and PNG.
So, now that you know that,
let's go ahead and try out this exercise.
So I've opened a window here of my
files for the starting website.
And next to it, I'm going to go ahead and
open up my demo-finish folder.
Now what I'd like for you to do is to
look at the names of these files and
drag them into the correct folders.
Go on ahead and pause the video.
And give this a try, and I'm gonna
tell you the answers in just a second.
Okay, so now that you've given that a try,
let's start with css,
since it's the first
thing that's listed here.
If you double-click on the css folder
to open it up, you'll see over
here in our starting-website folders
we have a file here called styles.css.
All we need to do is just click and
drag that on over into our css file.
To go back to demo-finish,
just up here in the top bar,
you can click on the name demo-finish.
That will put us back to the screen.
Next, let's go ahead and work on our
images, so double-click on the img folder.
Over here on the left-hand side,
in the starting-website folder,
we have a bunch of stuff.
So we've got the cherryalamode.jpeg,
click and drag that on over.
And we've got clouds.png.
Click and drag that on over.
We have something called logo.png.
Go ahead and
drag that over as well, great!
So now we have our images
in the img folder.
Go back to demo-finish, again.
And then we have a folder here called js.
And that will be our JavaScript.
So go ahead and open that up,
click on accordion.js.
Click and drag that over.
And that is in place.
So going back to the demo-finish folder,
what's missing?
We don't have HTML.
So, typically,
there is not an html folder in place.
The HTML files are gonna go right
directly in the same place as the CSS,
the image and the JavaScript folders.
So just going ahead and choose index.html.
And simply drag that on over
to the demo-finish folder.
You'll have one file remaining.
It's this one here, this .DS_Store folder.
As a PC person, this is something you're
gonna run into fairly frequently.
If you are getting files from someone who
created them on a Macintosh, which is what
I did, you will typically find these files
called .DS_Store that are here on your PC.
You can safely ignore these.
These are of no benefit
to a PC whatsoever.
And Mac people never see this file.
So as a PC person, just get used to
occasionally you run into a .DS_store,
you can just ignore that and it doesn't
make any difference to you whatsoever.
So we're done with
the starting-website folder.
We've now loaded up the demo-finish
folder with a bunch of stuff.
Let's see what it looks
like in the next video.